---
marp: true
theme: default
class: default
author: Nirand Pisutha-Arnond
paginate: true
footer: "255499: Blockchain for Industrial Engineers"
---

<style>
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Prompt:ital,wght@0,100;0,300;0,400;0,700;1,100;1,300;1,400;1,700&display=swap');

    :root {
    font-family: Prompt;
    --hl-color: #D57E7E;
}
h1 {
  font-family: Prompt
}
</style>

# Blockchain for Industrial Engineers: Decentralized Application Development

## บล็อกเชนสำหรับวิศวกรอุตสาหการ: การพัฒนาแอปพลิเคชันแบบกระจายศูนย์

---

# Auction

---

# How it works

- Like ebay.
- Auction has `owner` (seller), `start`, `end`.
- `owner` can cancel auction or can finalize the auction after `end` time.
- Users bid by sending ETH to the contract.
  - The contract will store addresses and bid amount.

---

# How it works

- The current price (`highestBindingBid`) will be the previous highest bid plus an `increment`.
- After the auction ends,
  - `highestBindingBid` is the selling price.
  - `highestbidder` is the buyer.
  - `owner` gets the `highestBindingBid`
  - Everybody else get their money back.

---

# Enums

- Enums restrict a variable to have one of only a few predefined values.
- Reduce the number of bugs in your code.

```js
enum State {Open, Closed}
```

---

# Mapping

- Data structure that holds `key`, `value` pairs.
  - Similar to `dict` in Python
- All keys must have the same type.
- All values must have the same type.
- Key cannot be `mapping`, `dynamic array`, `enum`, or `struct`.

---

# Mapping

- Always saved in storage.
- Lookup time is constant **no matter of the size**.
- Cannot iterate keys.
- The value of an **non-existent** key is a default value.

```js
mapping(address => uint) public bids;
```

---

# Declare variables and constructor

---

# Function modifier

- Used to modifer behavior of a function.
- Can be used to test a condition.
  - Avoid writing redundant code.
- Don't `return`.
- Defined by `modifier` keyword.
